README.md, before:

<img src="./Images/swiftyIllustrator.png" height="200"/>

# SwiftyIllustrator

A tool for quickly converting Adobe Illustrator shapes into SwiftUI code.

## Description

This tool utilizes the built-in scripting of Adobe Illustrator ("AI") to convert shapes drawn with AI into swift code. The included [javascript](./Illustrator/IllustratorToSwiftUIShape.js) iterates over each point of an AI shape and converts the shape into a series of CGPaths that are wrapped in a SwiftUI view for easy implementation into your XCode project. 

## Installation

Just grab a copy of this repo.

## Usage Outline

1) Create a custom shape or shapes in the included [AI file](./Illustrator/ExampleIllustratorContent.ai)
2) Center the custom shape(s) on the artboard
3) Select the custom shape(s) to be converted to swift code
4) Run the included [javascript](./Illustrator/IllustratorToSwiftUIShape.js) using Illustrator's built in scripting (for more info, see [Adobe's guide](https://www.adobe.com/devnet/illustrator/scripting.html))
5) Save the script's output text as a .swift file
6) Import the .swift file into your XCode project
7) Implement the generated SwiftUI view as you please

## Detailed Usage Example

In this example, we'll be converting the SwiftyIllustrator icon (drawn using AI) into a SwiftUI view.

| Description                                                                                                         | Examples Images                                     |       
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| To begin, open the included [AI file][1], which has the SwiftyIllustrator icon already drawn on the lone artboard   | <img src="./Images/exampleImage1.png" width="400"/> |
| Select all of the logo elements (_e.g._, using the Group Selection Tool)                                            | <img src="./Images/exampleImage2.png" width="400"/> |
| Navigate to AI's built in scripting dialog via File -> Scripts -> Other Script...                                   | <img src="./Images/exampleImage3.png" width="400"/> |
| Select the included [javascript](./Illustrator/IllustratorToSwiftUIShape.js) file and run it                        | <img src="./Images/exampleImage4.png" width="400"/> | 
| Choose a name and destination for the script's output (_e.g._, "ShapeView.swift")                                   | <img src="./Images/exampleImage5.png" width="400"/> |
| If successful, you should see the provided alert                                                                    | <img src="./Images/exampleImage6.png" width="400"/> |
| Then, add the new .swift file to your XCode project                                                                 | <img src="./Images/exampleImage7.png" width="400"/> |
| Open XCode's canvas to preview the new SwiftUI view. You should see a wireframe of the SwiftyIllustrator icon       | <img src="./Images/exampleImage8.png" width="400"/> |
| In the new .swift file, you'll notice a single SwiftUI view comprising the 7 elements of the SwiftyIllustrator icon | <img src="./Images/exampleImage0.png" width="400"/> |
| Here, in the SwiftUI View, you can change the appearance of the individual shape elements (_e.g._, adding fills, strokes etc.) as you please, as well as adding animations to the individual elements, to create compelling, dynamic content in pure Swift code!                                        | <img src="./Images/exampleImage9.gif" width="400"/> |

## Caveats
* To simplify the AI javascript, **it is assumed that your artboard and your custom shapes are centered about (x:0, y:0) in AI's coordinate space.** You can use your own AI file to run the script, but please take this into consideration. Otherwise, the shapes of your generated SwiftUI view may not be positioned as you'd expect.

## Other Info

This project was tested using: 
* Illustrator 24.2
* XCode 12.2

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

[1]: ./Illustrator/ExampleIllustratorContent.ai

Commit message:

added link to license file

README.md, after:

<img src="./Images/swiftyIllustrator.png" height="200"/>

# SwiftyIllustrator

A tool for quickly converting Adobe Illustrator shapes into SwiftUI code.

## Description

This tool utilizes the built-in scripting of Adobe Illustrator ("AI") to convert shapes drawn with AI into swift code. The included [javascript](./Illustrator/IllustratorToSwiftUIShape.js) iterates over each point of an AI shape and converts the shape into a series of CGPaths that are wrapped in a SwiftUI view for easy implementation into your XCode project. 

## Installation

Just grab a copy of this repo.

## Usage Outline

1) Create a custom shape or shapes in the included [AI file](./Illustrator/ExampleIllustratorContent.ai)
2) Center the custom shape(s) on the artboard
3) Select the custom shape(s) to be converted to swift code
4) Run the included [javascript](./Illustrator/IllustratorToSwiftUIShape.js) using Illustrator's built in scripting (for more info, see [Adobe's guide](https://www.adobe.com/devnet/illustrator/scripting.html))
5) Save the script's output text as a .swift file
6) Import the .swift file into your XCode project
7) Implement the generated SwiftUI view as you please

## Detailed Usage Example

In this example, we'll be converting the SwiftyIllustrator icon (drawn using AI) into a SwiftUI view.

| Description                                                                                                         | Examples Images                                     |       
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| To begin, open the included [AI file][1], which has the SwiftyIllustrator icon already drawn on the lone artboard   | <img src="./Images/exampleImage1.png" width="400"/> |
| Select all of the logo elements (_e.g._, using the Group Selection Tool)                                            | <img src="./Images/exampleImage2.png" width="400"/> |
| Navigate to AI's built in scripting dialog via File -> Scripts -> Other Script...                                   | <img src="./Images/exampleImage3.png" width="400"/> |
| Select the included [javascript](./Illustrator/IllustratorToSwiftUIShape.js) file and run it                        | <img src="./Images/exampleImage4.png" width="400"/> | 
| Choose a name and destination for the script's output (_e.g._, "ShapeView.swift")                                   | <img src="./Images/exampleImage5.png" width="400"/> |
| If successful, you should see the provided alert                                                                    | <img src="./Images/exampleImage6.png" width="400"/> |
| Then, add the new .swift file to your XCode project                                                                 | <img src="./Images/exampleImage7.png" width="400"/> |
| Open XCode's canvas to preview the new SwiftUI view. You should see a wireframe of the SwiftyIllustrator icon       | <img src="./Images/exampleImage8.png" width="400"/> |
| In the new .swift file, you'll notice a single SwiftUI view comprising the 7 elements of the SwiftyIllustrator icon | <img src="./Images/exampleImage0.png" width="400"/> |
| Here, in the SwiftUI View, you can change the appearance of the individual shape elements (_e.g._, adding fills, strokes etc.) as you please, as well as adding animations to the individual elements, to create compelling, dynamic content in pure Swift code!                                        | <img src="./Images/exampleImage9.gif" width="400"/> |

## Caveats
* To simplify the AI javascript, **it is assumed that your artboard and your custom shapes are centered about (x:0, y:0) in AI's coordinate space.** You can use your own AI file to run the script, but please take this into consideration. Otherwise, the shapes of your generated SwiftUI view may not be positioned as you'd expect.

## Other Info

This project was tested using: 
* Illustrator 24.2
* XCode 12.2

## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License
SwiftyIllustrator is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for more info.

[1]: ./Illustrator/ExampleIllustratorContent.ai
